\documentclass[10pt,letter]{article}

\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{lastpage}
\usepackage{subfigure}
\usepackage[body={6.0in,8.0in}, left=1in, right=1in, top=1in, bottom=1in]{geometry}

\newcommand{\blankpage}{\hfill\thispagestyle{empty}\pagebreak\addtocounter{page}{-1}}

\pagestyle{fancy}
\lhead{Teaching Boxes Builder: Final Report}
\rhead{\today}

\title{Teaching Boxes Builder: \\ Final Report}
\author{Deanna Fierman  \\ \small{fierman@colorado.edu} \and
        Cory Maccarrone \\ \small{Cory.Maccarrone@colorado.edu} \and
		W. Evan Sheehan \\ \small{Wallace.Sheehan@gmail.com}}

\begin{document}
\bibliographystyle{plain}
\maketitle
\pagebreak

\pagenumbering{roman}
\tableofcontents
\cfoot{\hrule \thepage}
\pagebreak
\listoffigures
\pagebreak

\pagenumbering{arabic}
\cfoot{\hrule Page\ \thepage\ of\ \pageref{LastPage}}

\section{Problem}
Teaching boxes are digital collections of lesson plans, activities, and other
resources compiled by teachers. These compilations of materials can be utilized
by other teachers, and the lessons may be modified or added to depending on each
individual teacher's needs. Traditionally, these sets of materials are compiled
in binders or boxes, and commonly become cumbersome to use due to the amount of
material they contain.  In the Teaching Boxes Builder project, materials are
compiled and organized digitally to reduce the clumsiness of compiling large
quantities of teaching material.

Much of the digital Teaching Boxes design work is being done by DLESE (Digital
Library for Earth System Education, http://preview.dlese.org/). DLESE has a
pilot website for the digital teaching boxes\cite{bib:teachingboxes.org}.

One of the primary issues surrounding the design of digital teaching boxes is
ease of creation.  Although a teacher may have a clear lesson plan, making this
lesson and related materials available on-line has thus far been something of a
challenge.  At the present time, the teacher creates the teaching box in
Microsoft Word using a template and then sends Word document to an intermediary.
The intermediary then generates HTML from the Word document and uploads the
teaching box to the web-server. Similarly, modifying a teaching box can not be
done directly. A teacher must send the changes to someone who can propagate the
changes to the teaching box on the website.

We propose to implement a user-friendly, flexible way to allow teachers to
create teaching boxes and modify them directly. Utilizing a template provided on
the website, teachers will be able to create brand new teaching boxes that will
be immediately available to other users. It will be possible to store partially
created lessons for completion at a later time, and to modify existing teaching
boxes. The interface will need to make all the necessary steps in the creation
process clear to new users without bogging down expert users.

\section{Related Research}
We decided to primarily draw upon the readily available resources for this
project that have been written by the project sponsors.  We closely examined two
of their papers, along with looking closely at the web sites that have already
been designed for use with teaching boxes as well as other teaching lesson
websites.  In \textit{Teaching Boxes: Lessons for Digital Library Resource
Reuse} \cite{bib:khan-maull} the authors explore the components which should be
included within teaching boxes, and examine how the concept of teaching boxes
can be modified to support teachers in the most accessible way possible,
specifically as part of their current lesson-planning methods.  Several pilot
studies were run to define teaching boxes and to examine which methods of
looking at the boxes were most useful.  One of the key findings was the
necessity for extensive flexibility and adaptation for any given teacher.  The
pilot studies also found that teachers wanted detail about the lesson plans they
might be borrowing, including time required, materials, and common student
misconceptions about the subject matter.  One important note at the end of the
article is that it would be helpful to be able to connect teaching boxes to each
other.  This is an idea we have attempted to implement in our current design.

In \textit{Customizable Teaching Boxes: A Window to Digital Library Resource
Reuse} \cite{bib:khan-maull2} the authors utilized Lewis and Rieman's
task-centered design approach to examine teaching boxes in a similar fashion
that it was used in this project.  They examined the design of teaching boxes
from the perspective of lesson-planning work flow, looked at how often and in
what manner teachers modified their own lessons, and studied how they would
modify and reuse lesson plans.  They found, as we did in the current project,
that teachers rarely used prepared lessons as they were, but instead extensively
modified these lessons.  This finding formed the base of our project: designing
an easily modifiable, intuitively navigable teaching box.

\section{Approach}
We began by interviewing teachers about lesson planning -- interview questions
can be found in Appendix \ref{interview questions}, and notes from the
interviews in Appendix \ref{interview notes}. The interviews helped us gather
data regarding how teachers create lesson plans and what requirements they have
for digitizing lesson plans. The user interviews were supplemented by a survey
we sent out via e-mail -- found in Appendix \ref{survey}. This data was used to
create some low-fidelity prototypes for various aspects of the user interface.
We put these prototypes through cognitive walk-throughs and heuristic
evaluations to try and improve their design before we began any actual coding.
After evaluating the low-fidelity prototype, we created a functioning
high-fidelity prototype based on our low-fidelity mock-ups. The high-fidelity
prototype was created using XHTML, JavaScript, CSS, and AJAX. After this
prototype was complete we went back to our interviewees to have them evaluate
it. We had test users perform think-alouds on this prototype. Some of the
feedback gathered was used to improve the prototype, the rest is included in
section \ref{Recommendations} as recommendations for future improvements.

\section{Interviews}
\input{interview_summary}

\section{Abstract User Profile}
In general, our users are teachers of any grade level -- Kindergarten through
12$^{th}$ grade. The amount of teaching experience may vary across users, the
subjects and ages that they teach, the amount of experience with both on-paper
and on-line teaching boxes, familiarity with the DLESE web site, and degree of
computer use.  Ideally the teaching boxes would be usable by beginning through
experienced teachers for planning lessons for all ages and subjects.  Although
it does not take long to become understand the idea of a teaching box, a few
hours' familiarity with the concept would probably be necessary for the
interface to work well.  This is experience we expect most teachers will receive
in their training.  An ideal user would also be familiar with DLESE's web site
design; however, the interface is designed for those unfamiliar with DLESE.
Understanding the concept of teaching boxes is the crucial factor.  The user
should be familiar enough with a computer to be able to perform basic tasks:
approximately six months of experience sending and receiving e-mail, browsing
the Internet, and using a word processor.  Although our target user is a
teacher, it is conceivable that anyone involved in education might want to use
this system.

\section{Design Priorities \& Issues}
From our user interviews and discussions with our sponsors we have identified
the following priorities and concerns for this project.

\subsection{Priorities}
The user interface needs to allow teachers to create digital lessons and
teaching boxes in a non-linear fashion. That is, it should not enforce an order
for the process, users should be allowed to fill in information in any order
they choose. The interface also needs to provide mechanisms for uploading files
to attach to the lesson so that teachers can include resources -- such as
worksheets -- with the lesson. Teachers should also be allowed to create links
to other lessons in the system or external web resources.

Once created, a lesson needs to be editable. As time goes on lessons are
modified and improved, so teachers need to be able to modify the digital
lessons. This also relates to the non-linearity of the interface; teachers can
begin a lesson, save it, and come back to finish it at a later date by choosing
to edit the partially complete lesson. Certain common template fields such as
``Materials'' and ``Standards'' addressed should be provided by the interface.
This will help bring some structure to lessons written by different teachers and
make it easier to use and understand the lessons that a user didn't write. As
well as a number of common template fields, the interface should provide a means
for entering information not provided for by the template fields because we
cannot foresee every possible piece of information a teacher might want to
include in a lesson.

Finally, it is vital that this interface be simple and intuitive. All fields and
buttons should be clearly labeled so that their function or purpose is easily
discernible. The process of digitizing a lesson for sharing via this library
should be as painless as possible so that teachers are not dissuaded from
sharing their materials.

\subsection{Issues}
\label{sec: issues}
Activities are conceptually different from lessons. Activities are rarely
lessons in and of themselves, but frequently supplement lessons. However,
we found from our interviews that planning an activity is often quite similar to
planning a lesson; the process is often the same, some of the fields --
materials, procedure, goal, etc. -- overlap, and activities are usually
developed along with a lesson. The question that arises here is whether or not
to treat activities and lessons differently by giving them separate interfaces.
It might be confusing for users if there is no logical separation in the
interface between lesson plans and activities. But there is a risk of
duplicating much of the interface by providing separate interfaces for each.

Because creating a digital lesson can be a fairly complex task, there is a lot
of information for the user: both the information that they have entered and the
actions that they can perform on the lesson need to be visible to the user.
Thus, information visibility is a concern for this interface. We do not want to
overwhelm the user with choices and text that they've entered. But at the same
time, we do not want to make it difficult for a user to find information that
they are looking for.

Although the interface will provide a means for teachers to upload
``attachments'' to a lesson or box, there are other resources for which this is
not an adequate solution. Text books, and other hard copy resources cannot be
uploaded in this fashion. It might be possible to scan the required pages in if
there are few enough. But there needs to be some mechanism for handling
non-digital resources in lessons and boxes so that teachers are not limited to
what is already on a computer or what they can scan.

The interface provides the user with a number of common fields such as
``Methods'' and ``Materials''. These predefined fields are not always sufficient
for a lesson; a teacher might want to include information not accounted for by
these fields. It is important to allow teachers to enter whatever information
they deem important for the lesson, so a means of including this information in
a sensible fashion is important.  But we want to discourage teachers from using
these fields exclusively so that the common structure of lessons is not lost. We
do not want a teacher creating a custom field for ``Methods'' simply because
they call it ``Procedure'' and don't recognize that that is what is meant by
``Methods''.

\section{Tasks}
The following user tasks are intended to exemplify the uses of the system and
the different types of users who might find the system useful. The tasks were
derived from our user interviews.

\input{tasks}

\section{Design Approach}
Figure \ref{fig: main window} shows the main window for creating new digital
lessons. It presents the user with individual, labeled text areas. These labels
will help a user identify the type of information expected in the text field.
Wherever the title might not be sufficient or ambiguous, a brief description of
the field is provided next to the title. These text fields help to add
structure to the lessons so that all lessons will be somewhat similar in format
and thus familiar and more usable.

Certain fields are optional and have a link that allows the user to remove them
from the lesson. Above the text entries is a toolbar providing the user with
formatting options and buttons with which the user can manipulate the lesson.
The area containing the text entries scrolls, but the toolbar does not. This
should make as much of the system visible to the user as possible. In many cases
it will not be feasible to display all the fields of a lesson at once, but they
are all kept on one page and should be easy to find by scrolling. The toolbar is
always available at the top, so the user never has to search the page to find
the buttons they desire. All of the buttons in the toolbar will be labeled with
text and an icon. Icons do not always clearly indicate the action performed, a
combination of descriptive text and an icon should improve a user's ability to
identify the correct button. The exception to this rule is the formatting
buttons. Formatting buttons for bold, or italic fonts, etc. are common in many
applications and will most likely be familiar to the user. In the interest of
space, these buttons only make use of icons.

There is a link at the top of this page leading to help and documentation files.
Often help buttons and menus are unhelpful; they either contain little
information, or detailed information that doesn't pertain to what most users are
interested in. This might dissuade many users from making use of a help button.
Our hope is that a link with more descriptive text about the kind of help it
provides will be less dissuasive for users in need of help.

\begin{figure}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.9\linewidth]{../../low-fi_prototype/button_mouseover}
	\caption{The basic main window for a new digital lesson.}
	\label{fig: main window}
\end{figure}

The interface for creating and modifying a teaching box (Figure \ref{fig: new box}
is even more simple than that of a new lesson. Internally, teaching boxes are
just a collection of links to lessons. There are links allowing the user to
remove one or all of the lessons contained in the box. The box contains a text
area for entering a brief description of the box that should give other users an
idea of what the box is about. The only button available to the user in the
toolbar allows the user to add another lesson to the box. Boxes are simple
enough that they can be saved automatically when the user makes a change, rather
than being explicitly saved.

\begin{figure}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.9\linewidth]{../../low-fi_prototype/teaching_box}
	\caption{The teaching box interface.}
	\label{fig: new box}
\end{figure}

The teaching boxes interface makes heavy use of dialog windows to display
additional information to the user and present them with more detailed choices.
The information in the dialog boxes is only needed by the user on rare
occasions, so most of the time it is not visible. This should help reduce
clutter on the screen and make more frequently needed information more visible.

Figure \ref{fig: dialogs} shows all of the dialogs used in this interface. When
the user elects to create a new lesson, they are presented with Figure
\ref{fig: new lesson dialog}. This dialog window allows the user to choose
additional fields to initially include in the lesson plan in addition to the
five required fields. Underneath the list of available fields the dialog
displays a brief description of the highlighted field so that if the user is
unclear about what a field is for they have more information available.

Figure \ref{fig: new field} is similar to Figure \ref{fig: new lesson dialog}. A
user is not limited to the fields with which they create a lesson, they may add
more fields later. This dialog allows the user to add fields to a lesson that
has already been created. Like the dialog in Figure \ref{fig: new lesson dialog},
this dialog provides a description of each field for the user below the list of
fields.

\begin{figure}
	\centering
	\subfigure[Dialog box shown when creating a new lesson.]{
		\label{fig: new lesson dialog}
		\includegraphics[width=0.45\linewidth]{../../low-fi_prototype/new_lesson_dialog}
	}
	\subfigure[Dialog box shown when adding more fields to a lesson.]{
		\label{fig: new field}
		\includegraphics[width=0.45\linewidth]{../../low-fi_prototype/add_field_dialog}
	}
	\subfigure[Dialog used to add a lesson to a teaching box.]{
		\label{fig: add to box}
		\includegraphics[width=0.45\linewidth]{../../low-fi_prototype/add_to_box}
	}
	\subfigure[Dialog shown when creating a new teaching box.]{
		\label{fig: new box dialog}
		\includegraphics[width=0.45\linewidth]{../../low-fi_prototype/new_box_dialog}
	}
	\caption{Dialog windows.}
	\label{fig: dialogs}
\end{figure}

\section{Results}
\subsection{Cognitive Walk-through}
A number of problems were identified during the cognitive walk-through.  We
identified that we needed more information boxes, including ones that a teacher
could self-label since we could not identify all of the sections that a teacher
may want to use in their lesson plan.  Another problem was clarity and
consistency about what went into each of the sections in a teaching box.  The
titles of the boxes and what information needed to be included in them needed to
be specified more clearly.  There were a number of ways this issue could be
addressed, all involving giving the user more information about the section as
the box is being created and edited.  The important issue of how the information
was going to be saved was brought up, as well: how do teachers save teaching
boxes, and how frequently is saving the box necessary?  Another concern was how
teachers were going to upload materials such as worksheets to the boxes, and the
need to make this as clear as possible.  Additionally, referencing other
teaching boxes would be helpful, but could be confusing for teachers.  It would
be good to add a link near the requisite "standards this lesson meets" box to
some sort of guide to the governmental standards.

\subsection{Heuristic Evaluation}
The heuristic evaluation revealed many of the same difficulties as the cognitive
walk-through as well as a handful of new ones.  The aforementioned problem about
what to name each subsection of the lesson plan was one concern, slightly
broadened in this evaluation to consider the fact that different teachers might
call different subsections different things.  Not only do we need to be
explicitly clear, we may need to call different sections by multiple names, or
provide explicit definitions.  On the other hand, that might get very confusing.
We also realized that the user memory load of our initial design, where each
section was nested within a larger lesson plan, might be more confusing than it
needed to be.  This was caused by the lack of visibility of the subsections,
thus taxing memory load substantially.  Consistency and feedback did not appear
to be issues in our design, exits were easy to spot, and error messages seem to
only be relevant when uploading additional materials such as worksheets to the
site, a feature we have not yet designed into the interface.

\section{Final Design}
At the moment, when a teacher wants to create a lesson or box for DLESE's
library they have to type it into Microsoft Word using a template provided by
DLESE. The Word document is given to someone who administrates the DLESE
website, converted to HTML, and then added to the library. Our interface allows
users of the digital library to upload their lessons directly to the website
using a web interface instead of Microsoft Word. The primary advantage of a
web-based interface is that it eliminates the intermediary. The amount of time
between when a teacher contributes to the library and that contribution becomes
available to other users is greatly reduced. Additionally, a web-based tool
eliminates the dependency on Microsoft Word.

For our final design we drew heavily on the DLESE website \cite{bib:preview} and
the prototype site for teaching boxes \cite{bib:teachingboxes.org}. From these
sites we gleaned the fields needed for our interface and created a look and feel
for the interface that would fit well with the existing project. We attempted to
make it as easy as possible to integrate this interface with the teaching boxes
project.

Our final design followed our low-fidelity prototype fairly closely. We used
JavaScript overlays for the dialog boxes (Figure \ref{fig: new lesson ss}, for
example) so that the dialogs would be visible even when the user has pop-ups
disabled in their browser. We considered using a sophisticated widget toolkit to
build the interface and rejected the idea in favor of a more simple approach. We
use only standard HTML components in conjunction with JavaScript and CSS to
create the interface. This forced us to use a simple design for the interface.
It is our hope that more complex boxes and lessons can be created by combining
the simple aspects of the interface.

\begin{figure}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.45\linewidth]{figures/new_lesson}
	\caption{Dialog presented when creating a new lesson.}
	\label{fig: new lesson ss}
\end{figure}

Figure \ref{fig: blank lesson ss} shows a newly created blank lesson with some
text. Formatting options for each text area are provided beneath the text area;
formatting options are not available for all fields -- such as ``Author'' -- so
they only appear below an entry when they are available. During user testing,
many of our users did not immediately discover the formatting buttons below the
text areas. Usually after a few minutes of using the interface they realized
they were available and began using them. Beneath the name of each field a brief
description of what the field should contain is displayed.  Next to each field
name is a link that removes the field from the lesson, if the field is
removable. The user is asked to verify the removal of a field before it is
removed (Figure \ref{fig: remove prompt ss}).

\begin{figure}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.9\linewidth]{figures/formatting}
	\caption{A new lesson shown with some formatted text.}
	\label{fig: blank lesson ss}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.45\linewidth]{figures/remove_prompt}
	\caption{Prompt presented when a user clicks ``Remove''.}
	\label{fig: remove prompt ss}
\end{figure}

The toolbar -- Figure \ref{fig: toolbar ss} -- displays text and icons for each
button. Some icons, such as the icons for ``New Lesson'' and ``Save Lesson'',
are taken from other applications that use those icons for the same action;
hopefully the icons are recognizable because of that. Other icons, such as ``Add
to Box'', are meant to directly relate to the action they perform so that their
function is easy to recognize. In case the icons are not enough to determine a
button's action, there is text next to the button that displays the button's
function. Should the text and icon not be enough, tooltips are displayed when
the cursor is placed over a button.

\begin{figure}[htb]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.9\linewidth]{figures/toolbar}
	\caption{Toolbar.}
	\label{fig: toolbar ss}
\end{figure}

\section{User Testing}
We ran four think-alouds, all with previous interviewees.  These individuals
taught high school science, high school math, middle school math, and a variety
of grade levels in elementary school.  Using previous interviewees in the user
testing was very helpful, since teachers were able to comment on the
implementation of the ideas they had in the interview, and suggest ways of
improving the interface to make usability closer to ideal.

The protocol was rather straightforward. Using the methods of Lewis and Rieman,
we asked participants to think aloud as they perform a given task. The user
began at the teaching boxes home page (Figure \ref{fig: homepage}) and was asked
to do two tasks.  First, they were given a paragraph describing a lesson on
teaching plate tectonics (see Appendix \ref{sample lesson}) and were asked to
design a lesson around this task.  Next, they were asked to create a new lesson,
one on a subject that they commonly teach.

\begin{figure}[htb]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.9\linewidht]{figures/teaching_boxes_home}
	\caption{The teaching boxes home page.}
	\label{fig: homepage}
\end{figure}

In the first task, once they successfully created the lesson, they were asked to
utilize any features they did not use during the lesson creation. For example,
people were asked to add a field that they ``forgot'' to the lesson, to make a
note for themselves to go back and change something at a future date, or to link
to another teaching lesson or box.

After the think-aloud, users were asked a number of follow-up questions.  These include
the following questions:

\begin{itemize}
\item What part or parts of Teaching Boxes did you find the most positive?
\item What part or parts did you find the most difficult or frustrating?
\item Looking at Teaching Boxes Builder the way it is today, do you think you'd
      use it to design your lesson plans?
      \begin{itemize}
	  \item If so, why, and if not, why not?
	  \item If so, in what ways do you think you would you use it?
	  \end{itemize}
\item Is Teaching Boxes Builder something you would use to create lessons to
	  share with other teachers?
\end{itemize}

Each walk-through took approximately half an hour.  The first lesson certainly
took longer for most teachers to create than the subsequent one, meaning that
learning was fast.  It took teachers inexperienced with computers significantly
longer to work through the interface than those with more computing experience.

Results were generally encouraging, identifying a few major components that
needed to be changed.  The only obstacle that looked potentially insurmountable
was that although teachers said they would certainly use the teaching box to
share plans, especially to share with others in their own schools, many weren't
likely to use it solely for designing lesson plans.  This seemed not to be an
interface issue, but rather a medium issue: teachers appeared to like working
with a paper-and-pencil medium that they could carry around and quickly edit
during class.  Printouts might solve this issue, but that would need to be
tested to see if that is actually the case. This finding was our major concern
from the user testing, and one we encourage the project sponsors to take into
consideration and explore further.

\section{Recommendations}
During the testing phase of this project, a number of common themes emerged
regarding missing or confusing functionality. Based on the frequency with which
these issues emerged and feedback from our test users, we have prioritized the
recommendations as follows.

\subsection{High Priority}
The most common request was the ability to rearrange the fields in the
interface. When the user adds new fields to the lesson they are appended to the
lesson. Many of our users expressed the desire to move some of these fields --
e.g. ``Methods'' and ``Materials'' -- closer to the top of the lesson. It is
important that the system allow users to arrange the fields in any order they
like to increase the user's comfort with the interface. One possible solution is
to add ``Rearrange Fields'' button to the toolbar. This button could bring up a
dialog with the list of fields in the lesson that allows the user to
drag-and-drop fields to different positions.

When asked whether or not they felt they would actually use this tool for
creating or sharing lessons, most users said they would, but expressed the
desire to be able to print the lessons. Once a lesson is completed, there needs
to be a printer-friendly version available from the library so that teachers do
not need to waste ink printing the graphics on the page. This will allow
teachers to create hard copies that they can then use in the classroom or submit
to evaluators (a few of our test users said that this system would be very
useful as a means of typing up lessons that need to be submitted for evaluation).

In addition to comments from the test users, we noticed some recurring behavior
that indicated the need for some changes. A couple of the users treated the
interface as a form requesting information and allowed themselves to be guided
by the present fields. As a result, instead of adding fields for information
they wanted to include, they simply put that information in whatever fields were
already there. For example, a couple of users used the ``About'' field to define
the procedure for the lesson instead of adding a ``Methods'' field. There are a
number of possible solutions to this problem that could be investigated.

One solution is to make only ``Title'' and ``Author'' appear by default in a
lesson.  The lack of any other field should make it clear that users are free
and encouraged to add more fields to the lesson because ``Title'' and ``Author''
are not sufficient for a lesson plan by any standard. Alternatively, more
default fields could be added to the lesson. A few users expressed the desire to
have ``Methods'' be default in a lesson because all lessons have a procedure of
some kind. This solution does not stop users from allowing themselves to be
guided by the interface, but it alleviates some of the symptoms caused by this
paradigm. A third option is to leave the interface as-is and provide a tutorial
for creating lessons. A tutorial would show users how to add fields so that we
don't have to rely on them discovering it themselves. In addition to showing
them how to add fields, it suggests to the user that this is the desired
behavior for the system.

Regardless of how the above problem is addressed, we feel that a tutorial is
important. At best, it is difficult for users to divine our goals and intentions
solely from the user interface presented to them. A tutorial can clearly and
explicitly tell the user how we expect the system to be used. Then there is no
guesswork on their part regarding our expectations. The tutorial can also
explain aspects and concepts of the interface that might be difficult to
understand otherwise (such as what a teaching box is).

\subsection{Medium Priority}
Another common request by users was for a customizable field. Often users had
one or two pieces of information they wanted to include in the lesson that was
not provided for by existing fields. Although there is a generic ``Other''
field, most users expressed the desire to rename this field to something more
specific. The primary concern with allowing users to create custom fields,
however, is that too many custom fields can destroy the consistency of lesson
formats in the library. It is important that lesson formats are consistent so
that it is not difficult for users to understand lessons they did not create.

Some of our test users were confused when they saved their lesson because they
weren't asked for a file name. They became concerned that they wouldn't be able
to get back to the lesson later without knowing the name under which it had been
saved. It should be made clear early on in the process that lessons can be found
by the title they are given. It might be possible to include this information in
the brief description of the title field displayed in the interface, and it
should certainly be explained in the user documentation.

\subsection{Low Priority}
There is a problem with visibility when new fields are added to a lesson. When
a user adds fields to a lesson, they appear at the bottom of the page; there is
no indication that the fields were added. Additionally, if a user had just added
a field, it is reasonable to assume that the user wants to put information in
that field immediately; forcing them to scroll down to the bottom of the page to
do so is inconvenient for them. Instead, the system should make the added field
immediately visible to the user so that the user knows it was actually added and
can begin adding information to the field immediately. To accomplish this, the
system might scroll to the position where the new field is in the window
automatically after the field has been added. This shows the user that the field
is there and allows them to begin using it right away.

\section{Web Analytics}
Our primary ``business'' goal for this project is to get teachers to contribute
lessons to the library. We would like this library to contain many lessons for
teachers to use. In order to have a large library of lessons, teachers need to
contribute lessons to the library. The ``customer'' goal for this project
coincides closely to the ``business'' goal. We want it to be as easy as possible
for teachers to contribute their lessons to our library.

\subsection{Business Goal Metrics}
The easiest metric for our business goal is the number of created lessons in
given time periods. Tracking the number of lessons created in the last week,
month, year, etc. will give us an idea of the trends in lesson creation. A
steady decline in the lesson creation rate might indicate a loss of interest in
the project. This metric would be most useful when compared to other metrics
such as the number of hits for the site, or number of users logged on in the
last week, month, etc.

Measuring lesson creation in given time periods can also show trends in lesson
creation during specific times of the year. For instance, it might be that the
majority of lessons are created during June and July (summer vacation). Knowing
this kind of information can explain a change in lesson creation during certain
times of the year and prevent (or justify) concern regarding these changes.

\subsection{Customer Goal Metrics}
To track our customer goal we can count the number of incomplete lessons --
lessons that the user starts, but never saves. We can compare this metric to the
number of created lessons to judge how easy people find it to create lessons.
If users find the process difficult, we would expect to see a high level of
abandonment compared to the number of finished lessons. As with the business
goal, it would probably be most useful to put a time bound on this metric. So
you compare the number of abandoned vs finished lessons over the last month, or
year.

\subsection{Business vs Customer Goals}
One of our biggest concerns for this project is ``technology abandonment.'' That
is, we do not want people to try our software and give up on it. Both our
business and customer goals are derived from our desire to have people use our
software, so balancing these two goals is not difficult. As people involved with
the project, we want to create a large digital library of lessons organized into
teaching boxes. To achieve this we need teachers to contribute lessons and
teaching boxes to the library (our business goal). If we make it difficult to
contribute to the library, we will discourage people from using it. So it
behooves us to make it as easy as possible for teachers to contribute to the
library (our customer goal). So achieving our customer goal also helps us to
achieve our business goal.

\pagebreak
\appendix

\section{User Interviews}

\subsection{Questions}
\label{interview questions}
\begin{itemize}
	\item How do you create a lesson plan?

	\item Do you have a structured process, or is it different every time?

	\item How do you find resources?

	\item Do you work collaboratively?
	\begin{itemize}
		\item Do you collaborate during creation?

		\item Do you collaborate after creation?

		\item How does this process work?
	\end{itemize}

	\item How long does it take you to develop a lesson plan?

	\item What is your biggest concern when using someone else's lesson plan?

	\item What do you think you might like about using someone else's lesson
		plan?

	\item Do you know any other teachers who might like to participate?

	\item May we contact you again for later interviews or if we think of any
		further questions?
\end{itemize}

\subsection{Interview Notes}
\begingroup
\let\section\subsubsection
\label{interview notes}
\input{interviews}
\endgroup

\section{Survey}
\label{survey}
The following survey was e-mailed to teachers that we couldn't interview in
person due to geographic or temporal constraints as a means of supplementing
data gathered from our interviews.

\subsection{Questions}
\begin{itemize}
\item How do you create lesson plans?  Is it a structured process, or different
      every time?
\item How do you revise lesson plans, and how frequently?
\item How long does it usually take you to create a lesson plan?
\item What goes into your lesson plans?  What are you explicit about, and what
      do you leave to memory?
\item Where do you get ideas for lesson plans?
\item How do you integrate state guidelines into your planning?
\item How do you find resources for lesson plans?
\item Do you work collaboratively with other teachers?  If you do, at what point
      in the process do you collaborate?  How does that process work?
\item What's your biggest concern about using someone else's lesson plan?
\item What do you think you might like about using someone else's lesson plan?
\item What does the term "lesson plan" mean for you?
\item Do you have any other things about lesson planning that you'd like to tell
      us?  We'd appreciate hearing whatever comments you'd like to share.
\end{itemize}

\subsection{Responses}
Verbatim responses to the survey:

\subsubsection{KW -- October 24, 2005}
Okay, Deanna,

I'm retired. So I actually have time to respond to your questions. When I was in
the throes of teaching, I probably wouldn't have time to respond -- or do to
many lesson plans.

Taught high school social studies for 35 years in a second ring Minneapolis
suburb. I started teaching in a modular schedule where most of my classes met 3
times a week. Later I taught in a 7-period day and finally in a modular schedule
where classes met 90 minutes a day, but for only a semester rather than a full
year.

For me, lesson plans came out of outlines for units that were usually 4-9 weeks
long. Once the topics for the unit were in some kind of order for learning, I'd
begin dreaming up ways to teach the topics.  The only time I worked without at
least one partner was when I taught AP classes. Unit and lesson planning were
group projects.  Lessons usually developed from objectives and available
materials; rarely from wonderfully creative inventions. For me it was never
structured -- I was always starting over. Revise? Often I didn't remember from
one year to the next what I'd done. (I had one young man who three times took a
course I taught. He frequently complained, "That's not what we did last year.")
Some things worked so well, I would remember them if the same topic became part
of the unit outline and I'd try to recreate them.

Lesson plans take from 5 minutes to 5 weeks to create. At a minimum, a lesson
plan is a scrap of paper in my pocket with a list of topics or events on it. (By
the time I got to class, I usually didn't have to look at it.) At most it was a
detailed script of what I wanted to say and do along with expected responses
(that was often the case when I introduced new topics in philosophy). Once I had
a clear idea of what the purpose of a lesson or a class was, coming up with a
lesson plan was a matter of deciding what processes would best move toward that
purpose.

Ideas come from other people, books of lesson plans (see The Center for Learning
-- http://www.centerforlearning.org/), experience, inspiration, improvisation,
and in-class interactions (some lesson plans are created in class -- "teachable
moments" don't you know).

State guidelines were considered when planning units of study, not lesson plans.

Resources are a problem. The Web helped a lot when it came along. Before that I
collected lots of original sources or collections of original sources, newspaper
and magazine articles. And when I had time (think July and August), I haunted
college and university libraries looking for documents, maps, and readings.
During most of my teaching career, I did not use textbooks -- except for the AP
courses, so I was always scrounging for material.

Collaboration can work in many ways. I think it depends upon the people involved
and the task at hand. For me, it was best when collaboration extended from
beginning to end. I knew we were successfully working together when we could
agree to give the same test at the end of a unit. Collaboration requires
agreement on goals, objectives, and main topics. It does not require agreement
on teaching methods. I am convinced that teachers teach best when they teach in
ways that make sense to them. They are better able to help students learn then.

When I use someone else's lesson plan, I'm concerned that I may get into the
lesson and realize I've missed a crucial step in learning the objective. Then I
won't know how to teach it. I loved using others' lesson plans since I didn't
have to be the creative force for a bit.

BTW, I did a "unit" of 40 lesson plans for The Center for Learning (AP
Comparative Government and Politics; to be published in November) and I learned
a great deal about preparing lessons for people I don't work with. TCL has a
very structured format for creating lesson plans for their "units." You might
want to ask them. (Or ask me and I'll try to dig up the format information they
coached me through when I was working on lessons last spring.)

\section{Sample Lesson}
\input{test_lesson}

\pagebreak
\bibliography{resources}

\end{document}

% vim: ts=4:sw=4
